And let's talk a little
bit about images as well.
So far we've spoken about numbers,
lengths, colors,
strings, let's discuss images briefly.
Just a few gotchas that
there are when using images.
So here we have a single line of code that
sets a background to a photo of a cat,
pretty ordinary stuff.
And at some point, we wanted to use
a custom property to control which
image is shown from that folder.
So when I tried this, my first guess,
about how to do it,
was to do something like this.
And then go here and
concatenate it like that,
but as you can see that doesn't work.
My second guess at this point, I had given
up on having the folder name be shared,
I said okay, if I specify at least
the folder name, would that work?
And obviously at this point I was just
investigating cuz this is not that useful.
But even that doesn't work.
What works,
is if I put the entire URL token
In the custom property and
use that, and this does work.
The reason my two attempts
didn't work is different.
So the reason my first attempt
didn't work is a CSS limitation.
There's actually no way in CSS
to concatenate two strings.
We're familiar with concatenating
strings from the content property,
because in the content property we can
just put strings next to each other and
the content property concatenates them.
However, that's specific to the content
property, there is not CSS wide.
We can't just put strings next to
each other anywhere in CSS and
expect that to work.
We are actually discussing a function for
this, a text or
concat function, but it's a way out.
So unfortunately right now there is no way
to concatenate strings to compose a URL,
which is really unfortunate
because this would be so useful,
especially with data
URIs that contain SVGs.
We could create parameterized SPGs,
but unfortunately we can't.
The second one is a CSS bug, and, I'm
sure you've heard of browser bugs before,
but you probably haven't heard of CSS bug.
So this is a bug with the CSS language,
this should work.
It should be possible for this to work.
But because URL started off as
not just a simple function, but
the URL function is weird,
it accepts a string as a parameter.
But also you could provide unquoted URLs.
And unquoted URLs are its downfall.
It means that we need to have
all these weird parsing rules.
So if you try to use a var reference,
in a URL function,
the browser basically has
to parse this as a URL.
The browser thinks that you have
a URL which is var open parenthesis,
--img, close parenthesis,
like that's your URL there.
And the whole thing fails,
because that's an invalid URL If this was
a regular function, if we were specifying
it today, then it should actually work.
Every other function in CSS accepts
var references inside it, except URL.
We are actually planning to add a function
that is just like URL except it
only accepts strings.
I think we decided to call it SRC,
it's a fairly recent resolution
like less than a year ago.
But right now that's obviously
not supported anywhere.
And lastly, the only thing that works is
if the entire URL token is in a variable,
but that can still be useful.
You can provide icons for things, and so
on, By assigning them
to custom properties.
So, one thing to remember is
that custom properties can only
contain entire URL tokens,
not parts thereof for now.
There are still some gotchas
even with that, let's say,
we have two separate style sheets,
one of them sets,
these sets images and
the other one uses these images.
So, a.css sets an image custom
property to a certain URL,
and b.css reads this custom property.
What happens, how do they resolve?
Do these URLs resolve relative to a.css or
b.css?
Do they resolve at the point
where we specified them, or
do they resolve at the point of usage?
Let's find out.
So I've prepared a demo here,
where we have a.css that
specifies exactly that,
and has a cat.jpg that is
relative to that file.
And then a b.css that imports
the first stylesheet and
uses that variable and
has a different cat image.
So depending on the cat image we get,
we could tell which one it's relative to.
So let's preview it and see.
So we actually get this one,
it's relative to b.css.
The reason, it's relative to b.css
is because given that this is not
a registered property, the browser just
treats it as an unknown token essentially.
So it's just substitutes it
at the point of usage and
that's only when it interprets it.
Theoretically we should be able to
register it, and then it would resolve
at the point where we specified it,
which is what we want in most cases.
However that doesn't work right now.
I do have an index hyphen registered
dot HTML here, but it doesn't work,
that part doesn't appear to be,
I think that part is not implemented yet.
There is a Chrome bug about it.
So relative URLs and custom properties
resolve at the point of usage, and
registering them as URLs or images will
allow us to change this, but not yet.
>> Can preprocessors help for
this CSS bug?
>> Yes, so, the thing is, preprocessors
can help as long as it's a preprocessor
variable and preprocessor variables
are not reactive like that.
So, they could help if all we're doing
is concatenating like if we just want to
eliminate repetition
within the style sheet.
But if we actually want the dynamic
aspects of custom properties then there is
nothing we can do.
Like if we want to have,
some sort of dynamic calculation and
then we wanna plug in an SVG
data URI to make custom icons,
that sort of thing that won't work.
But if we just wanna have like sass
variables within our sass stylesheet and
set them there, then of course we can
concatenate them in URL functions
like people have been doing this for
years.
In fact when I wrote my book,
I had an entire library of sass
functions to concatenate variables with,
to create like the SPG data URIs
>> Is there a way to set the URL as part
of the HTML like in an attribute or
other type of element?
>> So, there is an add function
that you might be familiar from
the content property.
So you can use this attribute
function in the content property and
we've had that for many many years.
And it just returns a string
that gives you the value of
the attribute in that individual element.
However, if you assign the attribute
function on a custom property will
just resolve at the point of usage.
So what you actually read that property,
so if you specify it on a parent,
and then you try to read that custom
property on a descendant that won't work.
Because the attribute function only
gives you the attribute on that element,
it doesn't inherit.
And also there were some plans in
CSS values to extend this attribute
function so
that it can be used anywhere in CSS.
And it can return any type of
value not just strings, so
that it would return numbers and so on.
Unfortunately, that was never implemented.
There's a lot of people pushing for
implementation of this, but
browsers don't seem to be interested.